One day when Curtis had to change a wheel on the car I helped him.
  ‘If you’re an idiot,’ he said angrily, ‘how do you know how to do that?’
  ‘Maybe I am an idiot,’ I said, ‘but ‘I’m not stupid.’
  I was born an idiot, but ‘I’m cleverer about than most people think.

We quickly realize this is true in this wonderfully warm and
funny story about Forrest Gump, a good-hearted young man
from Alabama in the USA. He wins a medal for being very brave in
the Vietnam war and meets the President of the United States of
America. He becomes a footballer, a film star, a businessman and he
goes into space. And his best friend is an ape called Sue!

Forrest Gump is now a film, with Tom Hanks and Sally Field in it.
Tom Hanks won an Oscar for the film in 1994. In its first eighteen
days, the film of Forrest Gump took $100 million in American
cinemas — more than any other film that Paramount Pictures has
made before. Forrest Gump is an unusual man who does a lot of
unusual things. Millions of ordinary Americans liked the film. They
felt Forrest Gump’s story was also partly a story about themselves
and about America from the 1960s to today. Forrest Gump lived
the ‘American Dream’. It doesn’t matter if you are rich or poor, you
can be anything you want to be.
    Winston Groom’s other books are Better Times Than These,
about the war in Vietnam, and As Summers Die. He lives for some
of the time in New York City and for the rest of the time in Clear
19 Who says these things?
    a That looks like a nice apple.’
    b ‘If you make that move you'll lose your queen.’
    c ‘It’s going to be difficult travelling with an ape.’
    d Take Sue back to Alabama with you, and start your shrimp
       business.’
20 Who tells Forrest that Jenny is married?
21 Why does Forrest go to Savannah?
22 What is Forrest doing in the park when Jenny and her son see him?
23 What does little Forrest want to be?
24 What does Forrest do with the money from the shrimp business?

Writing

25 Which part of this story do you find the saddest? Explain why.
26 Forrest Gump does a lot of very different things. Which would you
    most like to do, and why? Which would you not like to do? Why not?
27 Look at the picture on page 26. Write about the people in the picture –
   their faces and their clothes.
28 It is six months after the end of this story. Write a letter from Forrest to
   Mr Tribble. Tell him what you are doing now.




         Answers for the activities in this book are available from your local
    Pearson Education office or contact: Penguin Readers Marketing Department,
          Pearson Education, Edinburgh Gate, Harlow, Essex, CM20 2JE.

